# lab-5-seven-segment-display-driver-unpaid-interns
lab-5-seven-segment-display-driver-unpaid-interns created by GitHub Classroom

## Unpaid Interns: Carlos Zarco and Rafael Hernandez
### Date: 3/8/23  

<ins>Part 1: Rudimentary seven-segment display driver - revisited</ins>
 For this part of the lab, we used our old first_sseg_driver module from a previous lab and modified it so that our seven segment displays will display a number based on its corresponding location (i.e. display zero will display the number zero). We added a timer into the first_sseg_driver module so that the code will be able to display zero to seven by itself (without the previous use of switches to control the display). We created a timer with a frequence of 200000 so that the numbers are generated fast enought for our eyes to perceive them as constantly lit up with different numbers on each different display. We also included a counter in the module to help us generate the right numbers to be displayed onto the right segment displays.

<ins>Part 2: Complete seven-segment display driver</ins>
 For part two, we created a driver to help us display any number we want in any display we want. This driver consists of a timer, 3-bit counter, 3x8 decoder, 6-bit 8x1 MUX and a HEX to 7-segment decoder. The timer and the 3-bit counter would be use like how it was done in part 1 and help generate numbers from zero to seven. The count is connected to the 8x1 MUX's select variable and help switch between the inputs. The count is also connected to the 3x8 decoder so that it can help module active the right segment at the right time. The MUX's output will be used to help display the decimal points when needed and help the two decoders to display the right numbers in the right spots. In this module, the timer and the counter helps display the right numbers fast enough in the right spots. The Mux helps us input the different numbers to be used at the display we want to use based on which input we use and what binary number we use to put in these inputs. The 3x8 decoder is in charge of activating the right displays at the right time to help us display the right numbers in the right positions. The HEX to 7-segment decoder helps us create the display of the number we want to show in one of our displays. Overall, this module will help us display the numbers we input in the right order we want them to be displayed in our 7-segment displays.

<ins>Part 3: Display the content of an up/down/load counter</ins>
 For this last part, we connected an up/down/load counter with our seven-segment driver from the part two. In this module, we have used the button module, the seven segment module from part two, the up/down/load module and a binary to BCD module. To create a module to display the results from our counter, we used the switches and the buttons on the FPGA board we have. We used button modules to help us have control over how our buttons should be interpreted in our code. We have created button modiules for all the buttons we plan to used except for the CPU button. We created an if statement (basically a multiplexer) that will help control the counter we are using with the function of our buttons. We connect this to our counter so we can control it and connected this to our binary to BCD module. This binary to BCD module helps us get the right format for the numbers we want so that our seven-segment driver will understand the input we give it and what we want to achieve. As I mentioned, we use the results of this last module's inputs and pass it throught to the segment driver. We set up the inputs of this driver so that the result of the counter is formated and displayed in a way that represents the count that the counter is generating. In general, this is how we connected the segment driver to our counter to display the results coming from this counter we used.
